You know. he used to read
this to me when I was a kid.
Wait. he did?
Yeah. I loved it.
I'd never heard a story like that before.
I bet.
I think it's bullshit
we don't get to give him at
least. like. a little memorial service.
I know.
I just wish we could
honor him. you know?
Send him off in the right way.
We will.
When things get back to normal.
Here.
Go through these.
Do you think…
That he's still. like…
I mean. do you believe
in… you know. like…
- Heaven?
- Yeah.
You know.
I don't think there's some
magical place in the clouds
where all the ghosts hang out.
All right.
But I really do think that
the people who have passed on…
They stay with us.
They guide us.
Alex?
You guys should come see this.
Why do you wanna join the
off-planet expeditionary force?
Opef is where the
best of the best are. sir.
Your commanding officer seems to
think that you put in for a transfer to
avoid the consequences of
some problematic behavior.
Problematic behavior?
Like me being the top rifle expert at mct?
She says you have a tendency to isolate.
That you don't socialize with
the other members of your unit.
Because they're a bunch of drunks. sir.
I see you've attended three different
high schools. and been suspended twice.
Can you explain why?
Houston's school system's a war zone.
Some tweakers tried to
start a fight. I finished it.
Then the bleeding-heart
principals blamed me.
With all due respect. sir. what does
this have to do with me joining opef?
Unit cohesion.
You'll be confined in tight spaces
with the other members of your unit
for extended periods of time.
and you won't be able to just open
a door and walk off your frustration.
I can handle that. sir.
Do you have any diagnosed or
undiagnosed history of depression?
I don't do depression. sir.
I leave that to the philosophy majors.
Why did you take your
stepfather's last name?
I didn't. sir.
My mother changed my name.
What kind of relationship did you
have with your biological father?
He died when I was a baby.
I don't remember a thing about him.
As far as I'm concerned.
my father is Tom jarrett. sir.
Do you worry you might
share some of his traits?
I hope so. He raised me.
I wasn't talking about your stepfather.
I meant astronaut Daniel Stevens.
He's not my father.
Almost ready?
Don't wanna be late for your first day.
You don't think. like…
You don't think grandpa would
think I'm playing it safe. do you?
Alex. your grandfather didn't
spring from the womb as an admiral.
He started out swabbing
decks just like everyone else.
You gotta start somewhere. and
it doesn't have to be forever. okay?
Just…
Give the job a few weeks.
see if you like it. That's all I ask.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. yeah. yeah.
You told Dev I didn't want
any special treatment. right?
Yes. Alex. For the millionth time. I did.
Okay.
I'm gonna be home late tonight.
We're running sims for the titan landing.
Okay.
Wait. wait. Hold on.
Here.
What's that?
I found it in grandpa's stuff.
Wow.
Gosh. I haven't seen this since…
I don't even know when.
I was thinking you
should take this with you
to titan when you leave next week.
You could name a mountain.
or a methane lake or
something after grandpa.
You know?
I love that idea.
I will.
Once you log in. you
will access this database.
You will parse these records
from the last eight years.
extract the personal
energy consumption figures.
and run them through
this conversion program.
- Can you do that?
- Yeah. yeah. yeah. I ca…
- Yes. ma'am.
- I prefer Ms. Joshi.
Right. right. Ms. Joshi.
Just to say. by the way.
Whatever I can do
to help the team. I will.
I just wanna be treated
like everyone else here.
Why would I give you special treatment?
No… sorry. No. I'm sorry.
I'm saying you shouldn't.
If you need any assistance.
you can ask your colleagues.
Right.
Thank you.
Vestibule leak check is good.
Hopper 17. t-minus 60
seconds to Mars descent.
Hopper 17. Phoenix.
Proceed with undocking.
Request clearance for separation.
Max q. 679 mass at 1.07.
Prop iso valves open.
Rcs thrusters enabled.
Hopper 17. you are clear for separation
and Mars descent.
Copy. Phoenix.
Undocking successful.
Firing rcs thrusters at 15%.
Beginning rotation.
You are clear of departure vector 325.
Roger. Departure vector 325.
Holy fuck.
Aleida.
How was the trip?
A fucking month in zero-g.
I'm still feeling a little wobbly.
People usually spend more time on Phoenix
getting reacclimated to the gravity.
Well. we don't have time to waste.
Very true.
I'm really on Mars.
I can't believe it.
Well. you ready for a walk?
Come on.
I could use a drink.
That can be arranged.
Mr. Ayesa. what can I do for you?
Nothing. I'm just looking for this guy.
Look at you.
A working man.
- How you getting on?
- Good.
Ms. Joshi's been great.
Come up to my office. there's
something I wanna talk to you about.
Yeah. Yeah.
The high-speed Maglev
train runs along the side here.
There's a baseball field.
and check out the beach.
- The what?
- It's actually built over
the refuse processing facility.
The energy created from the
incinerator underneath powers the waves.
That is brilliant.
Yeah.
Thought you'd like that.
You know. that's the
whole idea of this place.
When you're inside. one
of its million residents.
you might as well be in
London or Copenhagen.
Meru's food. life support and power
will be completely self-sustaining
using entirely local resources.
Everything manufactured here on Mars.
We will no longer be reliant on
the inefficient shipments
of supplies from earth.
Truly
in control of our own destiny.
Wow.
This looks so perfect.
Almost too perfect.
Too perfect?
I don't know. I mean. like. too planned.
You know. too complete.
I mean. there's no room for people
to make it their own. you know?
It's dangerous to give
people too many options.
It confuses them.
Yes. but this isn't a ship
or a computer. it's a home.
Okay… when I was…
when I was little. yeah.
my mom hated how
claustrophobic the pods were.
So she tore off the cabinet
doors and filled them with
our books and my toys
and other stuff from earth.
I don't know. I…
Okay. maybe you could make
parts of the base like more modular.
more flexible. like the hab walls.
Even the public spaces.
I mean. you could give it a little
more breathing room. You know?
Like. make… I don't know. really
make people feel like they're free.
Sorry.
That was a stupid idea. Sorry.
No. it's a good point.
But that's not a simple change though.
Something like that. the redesign.
resourcing material. delays…
That's several million dollars at least.
Shit.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean...
but if you can come up
with an affordable plan
for flexible living spaces.
I'll make the change.
I mean… well…
- Ms. Joshi needs me to...
- don't worry about her.
Just focus on the work.
Wow.
I want you to feel
like you can make a
real contribution here.
Meru will be your home too one day.
So he starts walking down the line…
- What can I get ya?
- Gimme a coke.
You're an asshole!
You're one asshole!
Close enough. he's
standing in front of me.
He leans in so that close you can
see the veins throbbing in his eyeballs.
And I just burp in his face.
- No. you didn't.
- I did.
Well. clearly you didn't
piss him off too much.
- Yeah.
- You're going to the moon. baby.
Yeah.
- Semper fi.
- Semper fi!
- I am so jealous of you.
- In zero-g. baby.
Hey. ruiz.
You got accepted to opef?
Start training in two weeks.
Hey. guys. This is jarrett.
She was in lethal Lima with me.
You hear back from opef yet?
They're giving me a second poly.
Fuck.
- What?
- Somebody must've poisoned the well.
Yeah. After the poly. they
interview the people closest to you.
Your family. your childhood
friends. classmates.
If anyone says something
that conflicts with your
answers. you're fucked.
You must've got fingered for something.
Here I thought you
were a goody two-shoes.
Yeah. Any skeletons
in your closet. jarrett?
Fuck you.
Or are you just an alkie?
You're sucking that coke
down like it's going out of style.
Hey!
- Or maybe they just figured out…
- what the hell. jarrett?
…you're a fucking psycho.
- Say that shit again. I fucking dare you!
- Hey. hey. hey. Get… come on.
- Say it! Fucking say it!
- Hey. hey. Get off him. Get off.
Fuck you!
To titan.
Yeah.
So you're just never gonna bring it up?
Bring what up?
Korolev.
You mean cutting the
legs from my life's work?
- Nah. I wasn't planning on it.
- Kelly.
I swear I did everything I could
to save your research program.
I know. I know.
It took me a while.
but I get why you did it.
I'm just glad I kept the expletive-filled
vidmail in my drafts folder.
Look. I still believe there's life on Mars.
And if we're gonna find it.
korolev's the best place to look.
But I might not be the one.
and that's okay. 'cause…
I'm gonna find it on
titan. I guarantee you that.
Damn straight.
So tell me about your sojourner team.
I mean. Walt is the commander.
but how are the rest of the team?
They're great.
You know. incredibly smart. driven.
Best of the best.
And they all hate my guts.
Come on. That can't be true.
It's Walt's crew. and I'm the outsider.
Well. it's not the worst thing for
people at work not to love you.
They bother you less.
You would say that.
No. I just… I want them
to know I'm a team player.
Well. I'm glad to hear you say that.
You know. I wasn't
sure if after your dad…
If you'd still be up for it.
or if you'd need more time.
Which would be totally understandable.
No. it's…
It's the opposite.
This mission meant so much to him.
and he was actually the one
who pushed me to get on the crew
as a pilot in the first place.
I really was sorry to hear about him.
It's been over a month…
And it still feels like it
happened yesterday.
Sometimes I come home
from work and I still expect to
hear him bitching about
that damn ankle monitor.
Yeah.
Those things that drive
you crazy about them.
those are the things you miss the most.
Yeah.
Starting to see that.
But it's made me appreciate
the time I have with my kids now.
Even though I still mostly
just complain about them.
How are they?
Javi's been touring with his band.
My god.
I would love to hear some
of his music sometime.
No. you wouldn't.
And graciana…
She couldn't wait for me to leave.
Practically booted me out the door.
Same with Alex.
He can't wait to get
the whole hab to himself.
Okay. one last shot and
then we're going to bed.
- Right?
- Yeah.
Aunt aleida.
Aunt aleida. wake up.
Fucking hell.
Alex?
Wow.
You got huge.
Mars gravity.
Is that coffee?
Yes. Yes.
And aspirin.
She raised you well.
Speaking of which. where is your mom?
Not sure.
But she was in rough
shape this morning too.
What the hell did you
two get up to last night?
You know.
Just catching up.
Hey. you're going to helios. right?
Yeah. Yes. yes.
All right.
I'll come with you.
Give me five minutes.
Just need a second.
You know. I… no. no.
No. no.
Give me ten minutes.
Okay. cool.
There you are. How was the ride?
Did you talk to opef about me?
Well. hello to you too.
Come on in.
What'd you say to them?
Well. I told them that
you are incredibly bright.
Highly motivated. tenacious. and
that they'd be lucky to have you.
What else?
They asked about your family.
My dad?
And your uncle. And your
grand mama. and your grandaddy too.
What'd you say?
I said that your father was very talented.
But that he had serious
psychological issues.
They already know that.
It's in his service records.
I said that
living in the shadow of what he did…
It wasn't easy on you.
It was a burden you took up.
and it wasn't yours to carry.
They're giving me a second poly.
Good.
That means you're still in the running.
In fact. it means they really like you.
Otherwise. they wouldn't
bother giving you a second shot.
I just…
I can't screw it up.
- Then be honest.
- I was.
My dad. he's not…
He's never been part of my life.
I don't give a shit about him.
Avery. come sit down.
Your dad
became an astronaut because
he had something to prove to the world.
That he could live up to
the legacy of his parents.
And because he thought that
that was what was expected of him.
But deep in his heart.
it wasn't what he wanted.
He lied
to his superiors. to ed.
to me. and to himself.
That is what killed him.
And if you're doing all this
just to prove you aren't him.
you'll fail too.
I want my own life.
No one else's.
Then tell them that.
That is what they need to hear.
Excuse me.
You gonna just walk on through
here and not say hello to Avery?
Hi. Avery!
- She's getting big.
- Too big.
I can hardly keep up with her.
Come on. eat something.
Actually. I should get back to Pendleton.
Already? Wait. you just got here.
Yeah.
I'm sorry I came in so hot.
Come here.
You know I love you
no matter what. right?
And you're gonna need that fire
in your belly for what's to come.
I love you too.
I'm surprised to see that.
After everything that
happened between you.
Love. hate.
The older you get. the more you
start to realize they're not so different.
The war of words between corporate
rivals in the space race is heating up
as dueling missions to titan are
launching within days of each other.
Russian aerospace firm kuragin
launched their craft. kosmos-1.
from Kazakhstan just yesterday.
While the helios-funded mission
is said to launch from
Mars in less than a week.
They both seek to be the first to
find signs of life in our solar system.
Protests have grown in
regions of the Soviet union.
the largest in Vilnius and Kiev.
as members of anti-Soviet
independence movements
are spreading in the wake
of the flailing Soviet economy.
Along with the us and other m-6 nations.
Moscow has invested heavily
in iridium mining on Mars.
But shipments of the valuable resource
have slowed as tensions at
happy valley continue to rise.
You were appointed to your
post with very clear instructions.
To implement our plans to expedite
shipments of iridium. no matter the cost.
And these past weeks. the
work has slowed to a crawl.
You know I am fond of you. my boy
but we have leveraged our
entire economy on getting iridium
and the people are
growing tired of waiting.
You must expedite the next
phase of the kuragin project.
I know you can rise to the
occasion. lenya. Goodbye.
He is angry…
Of course he is.
What are you going
to do about this mess?
I need to find a way to turn the page.
Get people focused again on their work.
They're still bitching and
complaining about Lee.
And that damn Baldwin memorial
that's been up for a month
is not helping matters.
Tear it down. It is a violation of base law.
I can't tear it down. they'll only build
another and they will hate me even more.
I must unite the people. not
make it worse than it already is.
Remember the launch parties
they used to throw in star city?
How could I forget?
We met at one of these parties.
Every man there wanted you.
But you were the only salmon
to make it to the top of the falls.
Lenya.
Please.
Think.
Why do we celebrate these launches?
The Americans do it too.
So does helios. Esa. Even
the north Koreans. Why?
A shared sense of purpose.
I would wager ferdinand and Isabella
threw a hell of a party for Columbus
before he sailed across the Atlantic.
The titan mission.
Precisely.
Something for the people to rally behind.
And it doesn't hurt that ed
Baldwin's daughter is on the crew.
Honey. What would I do without you?
How far away is this?
Just another minute.
Jesus Christ.
How's everything going?
Yeah. Yeah. everybody's been really nice.
I'm actually back down another
floor. But you're good. yeah?
Yeah. I'm good. Hey.
thanks for being my guide.
Yeah. of course.
Ms. Rosales. he's expecting you.
- Can I get you a coffee or something?
- I'm okay.
Ms. Rosales? Right this way.
Did you want some coffee?
Wow.
I thought I'd give you a moment
to savor what we've built together.
Dev.
I need to talk to you about…
I am so glad you're finally here.
I'm so glad you finally came
up. I've been waiting for you.
Okay.
But the fact remains
that this company has
become dysfunctional. Dev.
We can't keep working
at cross purposes.
I'm trying to keep helios solvent.
meanwhile you're spending hand
over fist on this fucking city on Mars.
Which you announced without
even giving me a heads-up.
Hey. look. I get it.
I haven't always been the
most communicative person.
But in my life. I've lost trust in people.
Been stabbed in the back
by those closest to me.
See. the difference with
me is I'll stab you in the front.
I don't doubt that.
So are we good? Or are we
gonna talk about our feelings all day?
All right.
Then let's get down to business.
Two things.
First is that the new plasma engines
on sojourner aren't reaching rated power.
Won't even get us to orbit.
Second. if we do get them to work.
we're gonna hit titan's
atmosphere like a bat out of hell.
We need more accurate
atmospheric scale-height calculations
for the aerobraking maneuver.
Don't we have the data
from Walt's seekers?
Yes.
But that won't match
conditions when we get there.
Without real time scale-height figures…
Sojourner might just skip off the
atmosphere and get sucked into saturn.
Or come in too hot. Burn up on entry.
So bad day either way.
Kuragin's planning an aerobrake
maneuver for their mission.
They must have a scale-height
figure for those conditions.
- They'd be crazy to launch without it.
- So how'd they get theirs?
Pretty sure they'd consider
that proprietary information.
Okay.
I think I have a solution.
But I'm gonna need some time.
If we don't get that number.
they'll beat us.
I'll get it.
- Good morning.
- Morning.
- What's up. Mario?
- What's up?
G money. which server has
the space elevator schematics?
I just need to know how much weight
the platform can hold for the meru cargo.
Server 36. axl Rose.
Why are all your
references from the '80s?
Takes longer for shit to get to ussr.
Are you… I'm sorry.
are you sure this is it?
Yes. cowboy.
I ever see a man holding
a bull by the tail. you're it.
My god. Please stop.
Rio bravo.
- Sorry. Ms. Joshi.
- Yes?
I just can't seem to get access
to this folder on server 36.
Yeah.
You have to have level
three security clearance
from the m-6 for files with that heading.
And how do I get that?
Took six months from when I applied.
Can I just use your computer then?
Nice try.
It was. like. weird. You know?
The folder was in cyrillic.
which I only kind of understand
because my grandma kept. like.
drilling it into my head as a kid. but…
It said…
Automation.
Why is that weird?
'Cause the space elevator isn't
supposed to use any automation.
The unions made.
like. a big fuss about it.
Well. what do you think is in that folder?
Wow. Are…
Sorry. are you asking me right
now. or are you reporting for nnc?
- Is that… yeah.
- Shut up.
Like they actually ask me to do
anything besides make coffee.
Seriously. what do you think's in it?
I don't know. okay?
I couldn't see it. I didn't have
the proper clearance level.
Come on.
When has that ever stopped you?
Remember when you hacked
into the vending machines on sl2
and we had free soda
for. like. all of junior year?
Yeah. and I almost got suspended for it.
You almost.
When I was growing up.
he was just a picture on a wall.
My mother told me
how much he loved me.
and when I was little. I believed that.
I used to lie in bed at night…
look out the window at the stars…
Thinking maybe
somebody made a mistake
and that he was still alive up there.
That one day he would just land
his spaceship in the backyard.
Scoop me up in his arms and
tell me how much he missed me.
When did you learn the truth about him?
High school.
The other kids started
calling me "psycho bitch."
Said I was as crazy as my old man.
I'd take it for as long as I
could. then I'd start fighting back.
Is that why you joined the corps?
To prove them wrong?
No.
I joined to serve my country.
Same as my dad and his dad before him.
Ma'am. the lidar density maps
and atmospheric thermal profiles
you requested from
Dr. Griebel finally arrived.
Also. I printed out that monthly
operations report that you asked for.
Good. Thank you.
Also. knocking first would be nice.
Sorry. we actually have
an open door policy here.
Dev doesn't really
believe in closed doors.
Well. I do.
Yes. ma'am.
Wait. Hold on. come back.
It says here that a
delegation from kuragin
is slated to come up here next week?
Does it have anything to
do with our titan launch?
I'm sure it has something to do
with the space elevator construction.
It is behind schedule.
Get me whatever
information you can on them.
Yes. ma'am.
Okay.
Joshi priya.
Okay. Here we go.
Okay.
"Replacement of Mars
personnel with automation."
"Achieve automation of
98% of all Mars operations"?
What the hell?
Fuck it. Fuck it.
Look at you burning the midnight oil.
Sorry. I didn't mean to
scare you. I know it's late.
It's totally all right.
I'm sorry. I just… I get
so focused. you know?
I like your desk.
Yes. yeah. Thank you.
So what are you working on?
Just data entry.
Mainly… you know?
Hey. don't put too much
pressure on yourself. okay?
Not the worst thing to take a
break every once in a while.
Yes. Yeah. yeah.
Feel that. Feel that. A lot.
Starting right… I will
take a break right now.
- You take a break right now.
- Yes. Yeah.
- See you later. kiddo.
- Have a good night. aleida.
Holy shit.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah.
It's not just about the space elevator.
- They're gonna…
- automate everything.
Asteroid mining. iridium refinery. the
metal mills. the hopper. even Phoenix.
They can't do this.
They already are doing it.
Kuragin's been bringing equipment
up here for months. off the books.
And then what happens
to everybody living here?
- Their jobs are...
- it says here
that they'll just ship everyone
back to earth within a few years.
We gotta let people know about this.
I can give it to my boss at nnc. and I…
What?
- What? What is it? Alex…
- yeah. I just…
I just… I need to talk to Dev.
- Alex.
- No... he's clearly involved in this.
But it doesn't make sense. He
believes in Mars more than anybody.
Then why were these files
found on helios servers?
Everybody knows that nothing
happens over there without his say so.
Look. I know you're close with him. but
we have to let people know about this.
I need some time to think about it. okay?
Okay.
Coke. please.
That shit before.
We were drunk.
Sorry things got out of hand.
Anyway. fuck the poly. right?
You're a good marine.
Those machine don't know shit. anyway.
Well…
Then I guess it's too bad that I passed.
You what?
You heard me.
Yo!
Tabasco's going to the moon!
Tabasco! Tabasco!
Tabasco! Tabasco! Tabasco!
Good job.
See you later.
Ladies and gentlemen.
I am very proud to introduce
you to these intrepid adventurers.
Now. they're about to expand
mankind's reach by one billion kilometers
as they journey to titan.
The moon of saturn.
And their aim is to bring back
what possibly is the first
life from another world.
They include flight
engineer Stuart Fraser.
Geologist Elena beaufort.
Flight engineer and propulsion
specialist. Oleg vyshinsky.
Mission pilot. Kelly Baldwin.
And commander Walt griebel.
Settle down.
Settle down. please.
It is easy for us sometimes
to forget why we're all here.
But we are all explorers.
It is because each and every
single one of you that this…
This endeavor doesn't fall apart.
So today is a celebration.
But not only of the mission.
It's a celebration of you.
who make it possible.
Now this is a proof of what we can
achieve when we all come together.
Each one of you helping to push
mankind's reach further into the stars.
Alex?
In here.
Hey.
You okay?
Yeah. Course.
You sure?
Yes. yes. I'm fine. Stop worrying.
So…
last night on Mars?
I know.
And I picked up just
the thing to celebrate.
What. spaghetti night?
Come on. I need your
help with the garlic bread.
Okay. I'll be right there.
- All right.
- Okay.
Engine self-check is nominal. flight.
Ascent. is sojourner go
to initiate start sequence
on ascent engines one through six?
Pumps armed. magnetic containment active.
rf power on standby. Go for engine start.
Ma'am.
I have that information you asked for.
Thank you.
Aleida.
Ready for launch.
Let's get started then.
Capcom. tell sojourner
we have a green board.
Sojourner-titan. we show all
systems go for your ascent.
Copy. Mars. We're as
ready as we'll ever be.
Vasimr status?
Reactors nominal. tokamaks stable.
Ich is powering up.
Injectors now at operating pressure.
Ascent engines show green.
main stage engines at standby.
Guidance is now running
program four zero two.
L-minus six.
Five. Four. Three.
Two. One. Zero.
We have lift-off.
And clear. Twenty meters
100 meters.
Good ascent profile.
Secure a rotate to
azimuth zero-niner-seven.
Rotating to azimuth zero-niner-seven.
Mainstage thrusters ready.
And forward motion.
From the reports we're receiving.
today marked a successful launch
for sojourner-t and her crew of five.
- a mission funded by helios aerospace.
- To my husband
who successfully reunited
the people of happy valley.
I'm proud of you.
Thank you. little rabbit.
…endeavoring to land
on titan. a moon of saturn.
Their objective is nothing
less than to discover life.
The crew includes exobiologist…
Are you having trouble
focusing. my dear husband?
…daughter of renowned
astronaut Edward Baldwin…
Maybe I can help with that.
…who recently passed away.
She joins a team lead by Walt griebel.
The implications of such a
discovery would be groundbreaking.
potentially reshaping how
humanity conceives of itself…
- I'm turning it off.
- …potential applications
for bio medicine here on earth.
The pharmaceutical
corporations are taking note.
positioning themselves to
cut deals with either helios…
What is it?
…this discovery.
Not surprisingly. helios
and kuragin's stock
have both plummeted…
My god.